# CD4ML
Today's goal is cover follow articles 
[CD4ML](https://martinfowler.com/articles/cd4ml.html)
[Productionize ML in twitter](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/topics/insights/2018/ml-workflows.html)
[Spotify road map ](https://labs.spotify.com/2019/12/13/the-winding-road-to-better-machine-learning-infrastructure-through-tensorflow-extended-and-kubeflow/)
[Mlops by google](https://cloud.google.com/solutions/machine-learning/mlops-continuous-delivery-and-automation-pipelines-in-machine-learning)


## CD4ML
Background reading [Hidden Technical Debt in Ml Project](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/5656-hidden-technical-debt-in-machine-learning-systems.pdf)

This article is talking about why ML models particularly easily introduce technical Debt. To summary it, there are
three following reasons:
1. ML model is complex:
    * **Entanglement**: The complexity of model itself. ML models have strong entanglement which make you harder to isolate the improvement or problem. 
    * **Correction Cascades**: One ML input might be the other output 
    * **Undeclared Consumers**: Expensive at best but dangerous at worst.

2. Data Dependency Cost more than code dependency
    * **Unstable Data**: However, some input signals are unstable, meaning that they qualitatively or quantitatively change behavior over time 
    * **Underutilized Data Dependencies**: Data contribute little benefit to ML result might not be removed as fast as we should be.
    * **Lack of Data Dependency Analysis Tool**: There are generally less common tools for data dependency management.
    
3. Feedback Loops
One of the key features of live ML systems is that they often end up influencing their own behavior
if they update over time. This leads to a form of analysis debt.

4. ML-System Anti-Patterns Code debt. 
    * **Glue Code**: ML project intended to build self contain package and referring a lot of generic packages from 
    open source world. It end of a project with 5% of ml code, and 95% of general code just to perform basic utils function. 
    * **Pipeline Jungles**: Pipeline with for feature engineering slower become not maintainable. 
    
5. Configuration Debt
6. Dealing with Changes in the External World
    * **Fix threshold for Dynamic World**: Usually a fix threshold is choose but it can be fragile and introduce supprise error when data was changes. 
    * **Monitoring and Testing**: How to perform test when faxing a dynamic world. Following are the actions you might need to think of:
        * Prediction Bias: monitor the prediction bias, 
        * Action Limits: for sanity check. 
        * Up-Stream Producers: up stream producers should be monitored.  Further any up-stream alerts must be propagated 
        to the control plane of an ML system to ensure its accuracy.  Similarly, any failure of the ML system to meet established
        service level objectives be also propagated down-stream to all consumers
        
### What is changing
#### Data
* Schema
* Sampling window
* Volume

#### Model
* Algorithm
* ``#`` of training

#### Code
* business need is chaning
* bug fix
* Configuration changes

### Definition of CD4ML
Continuous Delivery for Machine Learning (CD4ML) is a software engineering approach in which a cross-functional team 
produces machine learning applications based on code, data, and models in small and safe increments that can be reproduced
 and reliably released at any time, in short adaptation cycles.
 
It have following principles:
1. Software engineer Approach
2. Cross functional team
3. Produce software based on code, data, and ML models
4. Try to do small and safe increment 
5. Reproducible and reliable software release. 
6. Software release anytime
7. Short adaptation cycle

    

